update docs about global kill #9499 (#8773)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md

---
title: KILL
summary: An overview of the usage of KILL for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill/','/docs/dev/reference/sql/statements/kill/']
---

# KILL

> The statement `KILL TIDB` is used to terminate a connection in any TiDB instance in the current TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The statement `KILL` is used to terminate a connection in any TiDB instance in the current TiDB cluster.
```

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
KillStmt ::= 'KILL' 'TIDB'? ( 'CONNECTION' | 'QUERY' )? CONNECTION_ID
```

## Examples

> The following example shows how to query all active queries in the current cluster and terminate one of the connections.

Author: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to query all active queries in the current cluster and terminate the connection to one of the queries.
```

> The following example shows how to query all active queries in the current cluster and terminate the connection to one of the queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to get all active queries in the current cluster and terminate any one of them.
```

+---------------------+------+-----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 8306449708033769879 | root | 127.0.0.1:10082 | select sleep(30), 'foo'                                                     |
| 5857102839209263511 | root | 127.0.0.1:10080 | select sleep(50)                                                            |
| 5857102839209263513 | root | 127.0.0.1:10080 | SELECT ID, USER, INSTANCE, INFO FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_PROCESSLIST |
+---------------------+------+-----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
KILL 5857102839209263511;
```

```
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

- The `KILL` statement of MySQL can only terminate a connection in the currently connected MySQL instance, while the `KILL` statement of TiDB can terminate a connection in any TiDB instance in the entire cluster.
- Currently, using the MySQL command line <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> to terminate a query or connection in TiDB is not supported.

## Behavior change descriptions

> Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the right TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the right TiDB instance for execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the target TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the target TiDB instance for execution.
```

> Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the target TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the target TiDB instance for execution.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting from v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the target TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the target TiDB instance for execution.
```

> Starting from v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the target TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the target TiDB instance for execution.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting from v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the target TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the target TiDB instance for execution.
```

> Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` statement or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and TiDB, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB instance for execution.

Author: ```suggestion
Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the right TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the right TiDB instance for execution.
```

> Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` statement or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and TiDB, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB node for execution.

Author: ```suggestion
Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` statement or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and TiDB, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB instance for execution.
```

> Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both the `KILL` and the `KILL TIDB` statement can terminate queries or connections across nodes so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections any more. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB node and execute the `KILL` statement or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB node. If there is an agent between the client and TiDB, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB node for execution.

Author: ```suggestion
Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across nodes so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections any more. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB node and execute the `KILL` statement or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB node. If there is an agent between the client and TiDB, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB node for execution.
```

> Since v6.1.0, TiDB supports the Global Kill feature, which is enabled by default and controlled by the [`enable-global-kill`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-global-kill-new-in-v610-version) configuration. When the Global Kill feature is enabled, both `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements can terminate queries or connections across instances so you do not need to worry about erroneously terminating queries or connections. When you use a client to connect to any TiDB instance and execute the `KILL` statement or `KILL TIDB` statement, the statement will be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB instance. If there is a proxy between the client and TiDB, the `KILL` and `KILL TIDB` statements will also be forwarded to the corresponding TiDB instance for execution.

Reviewer: `the corresponding TiDB instance` -> `the right TiDB instance`?
We mention `a wrong TiDB server` in the following.

Reviewer: Well `the corresponding TiDB instance` is ok for me too.

> If the Global Kill function is not enabled or you are using a version earlier than TiDB v6.1.0, note the following:

Author: ```suggestion
If the Global Kill feature is not enabled or you are using a version earlier than TiDB v6.1.0, note the following:
```

> - By default, `KILL` is not compatible with MySQL. This helps prevent against a case of a connection being terminated by a wrong TiDB server, because it is common to place multiple TiDB servers behind a load balancer. To terminate other connections on the currently connected TiDB instance, you need to add the `TIDB` suffix explicitly by executing the `KILL TIDB` statement.

Author: behind?

Reviewer: Where to use `behind`?

Author: "because it is common to place multiple TiDB servers behind a load balancer"

> - It is **STRONGLY NOT RECOMMENDED** to set [`compatible-kill-query = true`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compatible-kill-query) in your configuration file UNLESS you are certain that clients will be always connected to the same TiDB instance. This is because pressing <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> in the default MySQL client opens a new connection in which `KILL` is executed. If there are proxies between your clients and TiDB, the new connection might be routed to a different TiDB instance, which possibly kills a different session by mistake.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It is **STRONGLY NOT RECOMMENDED** to set [`compatible-kill-query = true`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compatible-kill-query) in your configuration file UNLESS you are certain that clients will be always connected to the same TiDB instance. This is because pressing <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> in the default MySQL client opens a new connection in which `KILL` is executed. If there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the new connection might be routed to a different TiDB instance, which possibly kills a different session by mistake.
```

> - It is **STRONGLY NOT RECOMMENDED** to set [`compatible-kill-query = true`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compatible-kill-query) in your configuration file UNLESS you are certain that clients will be always connected to the same TiDB node. This is because pressing <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> in the default MySQL client opens a new connection in which `KILL` is executed. If there are proxies between your clients and TiDB, the new connection might be routed to a different TiDB node, which possibly kills a different session by mistake.

Author: ```suggestion
- It is **STRONGLY NOT RECOMMENDED** to set [`compatible-kill-query = true`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compatible-kill-query) in your configuration file UNLESS you are certain that clients will be always connected to the same TiDB instance. This is because pressing <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> in the default MySQL client opens a new connection in which `KILL` is executed. If there are proxies between your clients and TiDB, the new connection might be routed to a different TiDB instance, which possibly kills a different session by mistake.
```

> - The `KILL TIDB` statement is a TiDB extension. The feature of this statement is similar to the MySQL `KILL [CONNECTION|QUERY]` command and the MySQL command-line <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> feature. It is safe to use `KILL TIDB` on the same TiDB instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `KILL TIDB` statement is a TiDB extension. The feature of this statement is similar to the MySQL `KILL [CONNECTION|QUERY]` command and the MySQL command-line <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd>. It is safe to use `KILL TIDB` on the same TiDB instance.
```
